README.md, before:

# player-one.nvim

A Neovim plugin that adds retro gaming charm to your coding experience with 8-bit sound effects on keystrokes.

## Features

## Requirements

- [Neovim](https://neovim.io/) >= 0.9.0

### System Support Status

| Operating System | Status | Notes                        |
| ---------------- | ------ | ---------------------------- |
| macOS            | ✅     | Tested on macOS Sequoia 15.2 |
| Linux            | ⚠️     | Not tested                   |
| Windows          | ⚠️     | Not tested                   |

## Installation

Using [lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim):

```lua
{
    "jackplus-xyz/player-one.nvim",
    opts = {
        -- Add your configuration here
    }
}
```

## Configuration

`player-one.nvim` comes with the following default configuration:

```lua
{
  is_enabled = true,  -- Whether to enable the plugin when loaded
	theme = "chiptune",    -- Whether to use one of the preset sound packs, set it to "none" or false to disable.
                      -- Available options: "chiptune", "crystal", "synth"
                      -- The preset sound packs are designed to provide a pleasant out-of-the-box user experience
                      -- and give a general idea of what the plugin can do.
                      -- They are therefore minimalistic and simple. You can create your own sound packs to better suit your needs.
}
```

### Custom Sounds

You can add new sounds by:

1. Creating a table
2. Use a json string generated from [jsfxr - 8 bit sound maker and online sfx generator](https://sfxr.me/).

Note that the json string uses normalized value while the table uses real units.

Here's the units used in the table:

| Parameter     | Unit     | Note                                                   |
| ------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| wave_type     | int      | 0: Square, 1: Sawtooth, 2: Sine, 3: Noise, 4: Triangle |
| env_attack    | sec      |                                                        |
| env_sustain   | sec      |                                                        |
| env_punch     | +%       |                                                        |
| env_decay     | sec      |                                                        |
| base_freq     | Hz       |                                                        |
| freq_limit    | Hz       |                                                        |
| freq_ramp     | 8va/sec  |                                                        |
| freq_dramp    | 8va/s^2  |                                                        |
| vib_strength  | ± %      |                                                        |
| vib_speed     | Hz       |                                                        |
| p_arp_mod     | mult     |                                                        |
| p_arp_speed   | sec      |                                                        |
| duty          | %        |                                                        |
| duty_ramp     | %/sec    |                                                        |
| repeat_speed  | Hz       |                                                        |
| pha_offset    | msec     |                                                        |
| pha_ramp      | msec/sec |                                                        |
| lpf_freq      | Hz       |                                                        |
| lpf_ramp      | ^sec     |                                                        |
| lpf_resonance | %        |                                                        |
| hpf_freq      | Hz       |                                                        |
| hpf_ramp      | ^sec     |                                                        |

#### Default Value for a sound

When a value is not provided, it will fallback to the default value.

| Json Parameter Name | Default Value | Lua Table Parameter Name | Default Value |
| ------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------- |
| wave_type           | 0 (Square)    | wave_type                | 0 (Square)    |
| p_env_attack        | 0.4           | env_attack               | 0.3628        |
| p_env_sustain       | 0.1           | env_sustain              | 0.02268       |
| p_env_punch         | 0.0           | env_punch                | 0.0           |
| p_env_decay         | 0.5           | env_decay                | 0.5669        |
| p_base_freq         | 0.3           | base_freq                | 321.0         |
| p_freq_limit        | 0.0           | freq_limit               | 0.0           |
| p_freq_ramp         | 0.0           | freq_ramp                | 0.0           |
| p_freq_dramp        | 0.0           | freq_dramp               | 0.0           |
| p_vib_strength      | 0.0           | vib_strength             | 0.0           |
| p_vib_speed         | 0.0           | vib_speed                | 0.0           |
| p_arp_mod           | 0.0           | p_arp_mod                | 0.0           |
| p_arp_speed         | 0.0           | p_arp_speed              | 0.0           |
| p_duty              | 0.0           | duty                     | 50.0          |
| p_duty_ramp         | 0.0           | duty_ramp                | 0.0           |
| p_repeat_speed      | 0.0           | repeat_speed             | 0.0           |
| p_pha_offset        | 0.0           | pha_offset               | 0.0           |
| p_pha_ramp          | 0.0           | pha_ramp                 | 0.0           |
| p_lpf_freq          | 1.0           | lpf_freq                 | 0.0           |
| p_lpf_ramp          | 0.0           | lpf_ramp                 | 0.0           |
| p_lpf_resonance     | 0.0           | lpf_resonance            | 45.0          |
| p_hpf_freq          | 0.0           | hpf_freq                 | 0.0           |
| p_hpf_ramp          | 0.0           | hpf_ramp                 | 0.0           |

#### Examples

##### Use a table

```lua
local coin = {
    wave_type = 1,
    env_sustain = 0.001367,
    env_punch = 45.72,
    env_decay = 0.2658,
    base_freq = 1071.0,
    arp_mod = 1.343,
    arp_speed = 0.04447,
    duty = 50.0,
    lpf_ramp = 1.0,
    lpf_resonance = 45.0,
}

require("player-one").play(coin)
```

##### Use a json

```lua
local coin = [[{
        "oldParams": true,
        "wave_type": 1,
        "p_env_attack": 0,
        "p_env_sustain": 0.024555768060600138,
        "p_env_punch": 0.4571553721133509,
        "p_env_decay": 0.3423639066276736,
        "p_base_freq": 0.5500696633190347,
        "p_freq_limit": 0,
        "p_freq_ramp": 0,
        "p_freq_dramp": 0,
        "p_vib_strength": 0,
        "p_vib_speed": 0,
        "p_arp_mod": 0.5329522492796008,
        "p_arp_speed": 0.689393158112304,
        "p_duty": 0,
        "p_duty_ramp": 0,
        "p_repeat_speed": 0,
        "p_pha_offset": 0,
        "p_pha_ramp": 0,
        "p_lpf_freq": 1,
        "p_lpf_ramp": 0,
        "p_lpf_resonance": 0,
        "p_hpf_freq": 0,
        "p_hpf_ramp": 0,
        "sound_vol": 0.25,
        "sample_rate": 44100,
        "sample_size": 8
}]]

require("player-one").play(coin)

```

## How it works

## Tips

### Use Terminal Emulator with Custom Shaders

Level up the immersive experience with a terminal emulator that supports custom shaders, such as:

- [Ghostty](https://ghostty.org/): supports [customGLSL shader](https://ghostty.org/docs/config/reference#custom-shader)
- [Rio](https://raphamorim.io/rio/): supports [RetroArch shaders](https://raphamorim.io/rio/docs/features/retroarch-shaders/)

### Dark Color Scheme that matches the 8-bit theme

Use a color scheme with [base16](https://github.com/chriskempson/base16) colors for the extra retro touch:

- [RRethy/base16-nvim](https://github.com/RRethy/base16-nvim): Neovim plugin for building a sync base16 colorscheme. Includes support for Treesitter and LSP highlight groups.

> [!TIP]
> My favorite is `base16-default-dark`.

Or a color scheme with vibrant colors on dark background:

- [folke/tokyonight.nvim](https://github.com/folke/tokyonight.nvim?tab=readme-ov-file): 🏙 A clean, dark Neovim theme written in Lua, with support for lsp, treesitter and lots of plugins. Includes additional themes for Kitty, Alacritty, iTerm and Fish.
  > [!TIP]
  > Try to setting `transparent` to true and use a dark terminal background.

### Font with Retro Look

Try to use a font that looks like it's from the past.

### Play soundtracks from games you love

This may improve your productity or may make you shed tears of nostalgia. Some awesome soundtracks to try:

- Little Root Town from Pokemon Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald
- Running Through the Cyber World from Mega Man Battle Network
- Main Theme from The Legend of Zelda

## Credits

- [sfxr](https://www.drpetter.se/project_sfxr.html): The original sfxr by DrPetter.
- [jsfxr](https://sfxr.me/): An online 8 bit sound maker and sfx generator.

Libraries used:

- [mlua-rs/mlua](https://github.com/mlua-rs/mlua): High level Lua 5.4/5.3/5.2/5.1 (including LuaJIT) and Roblox Luau bindings to Rust with async/await support.
- [bzar/sfxr-rs](https://github.com/bzar/sfxr-rs): Reimplementation of DrPetter's "sfxr" sound effect generator as a Rust library.

Inspired by:

- [Klack](https://tryklack.com/): A MacOS app that adds mechanical keyboard sounds to every keystroke.
- [EggbertFluffle/beepboop.nvim](https://github.com/EggbertFluffle/beepboop.nvim): A Neovim plugin that incorporate audio cues.
- [jackplus-xyz/love2jump](https://github.com/jackplus-xyz/love2jump): A 2D platformer game built with [LÖVE](https://www.love2d.org/) framework in Lua. This is my personal project to learn the fundamentals of game development. I got the idea of generating 8 bits notes and melody with [love.audio](https://love2d.org/wiki/love.audio), making this game free of audio file.

Commit message:

docs: improve themes documentation and formatting

README.md, after:

# player-one.nvim

A Neovim plugin that adds retro gaming charm to your coding experience with 8-bit sound effects on keystrokes.

## Features

## Requirements

- [Neovim](https://neovim.io/) >= 0.9.0

### System Support Status

| Operating System | Status | Notes                        |
| ---------------- | ------ | ---------------------------- |
| macOS            | ✅     | Tested on macOS Sequoia 15.2 |
| Linux            | ⚠️     | Not tested                   |
| Windows          | ⚠️     | Not tested                   |

## Installation

Using [lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim):

```lua
{
    "jackplus-xyz/player-one.nvim",
    opts = {
        -- Add your configuration here
    }
}
```

## Configuration

`player-one.nvim` comes with the following default configuration:

```lua
{
  is_enabled = true,  -- Whether to enable the plugin when loaded
	theme = "chiptune", -- Whether to use one of the preset sound packs, set it to "none" or false to disable.
                      -- Available options: "chiptune", "crystal", "synth"
                      -- The preset sound packs are designed to provide a pleasant out-of-the-box user experience
                      -- and give a general idea of what the plugin can do.
                      -- They are therefore minimalistic and simple. You can create your own sound packs to better suit your needs.
}
```

### Themes

Themes are predefined sound profiles—similar to colorschemes—that let you quickly experience what the plugin has to offer. Each theme is designed to be minimalistic and uniquely distinctive. The available themes are:

- `chiptune`: the default theme featuring nostalgic 8-bit sounds reminiscent of classic video games.
- `synth`: a theme delivering modern synthesizer sounds with smooth tones and electronic effects (although my cats aren’t fans).
- `crytstl`:

### Custom Sounds

You can add new sounds by:

- Creating a table
- Use a json string generated from [jsfxr - 8 bit sound maker and online sfx generator](https://sfxr.me/).

Note that the json string uses normalized value while the table uses real units.

Here's the units used in the table:

| Parameter     | Unit     | Note                                                   |
| ------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| wave_type     | int      | 0: Square, 1: Sawtooth, 2: Sine, 3: Noise, 4: Triangle |
| env_attack    | sec      |                                                        |
| env_sustain   | sec      |                                                        |
| env_punch     | +%       |                                                        |
| env_decay     | sec      |                                                        |
| base_freq     | Hz       |                                                        |
| freq_limit    | Hz       |                                                        |
| freq_ramp     | 8va/sec  |                                                        |
| freq_dramp    | 8va/s^2  |                                                        |
| vib_strength  | ± %      |                                                        |
| vib_speed     | Hz       |                                                        |
| p_arp_mod     | mult     |                                                        |
| p_arp_speed   | sec      |                                                        |
| duty          | %        |                                                        |
| duty_ramp     | %/sec    |                                                        |
| repeat_speed  | Hz       |                                                        |
| pha_offset    | msec     |                                                        |
| pha_ramp      | msec/sec |                                                        |
| lpf_freq      | Hz       |                                                        |
| lpf_ramp      | ^sec     |                                                        |
| lpf_resonance | %        |                                                        |
| hpf_freq      | Hz       |                                                        |
| hpf_ramp      | ^sec     |                                                        |

#### Default Value for a sound

When a value is not provided, it will fallback to the default value.

| Json Parameter Name | Default Value | Lua Table Parameter Name | Default Value |
| ------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------- |
| wave_type           | 0 (Square)    | wave_type                | 0 (Square)    |
| p_env_attack        | 0.4           | env_attack               | 0.3628        |
| p_env_sustain       | 0.1           | env_sustain              | 0.02268       |
| p_env_punch         | 0.0           | env_punch                | 0.0           |
| p_env_decay         | 0.5           | env_decay                | 0.5669        |
| p_base_freq         | 0.3           | base_freq                | 321.0         |
| p_freq_limit        | 0.0           | freq_limit               | 0.0           |
| p_freq_ramp         | 0.0           | freq_ramp                | 0.0           |
| p_freq_dramp        | 0.0           | freq_dramp               | 0.0           |
| p_vib_strength      | 0.0           | vib_strength             | 0.0           |
| p_vib_speed         | 0.0           | vib_speed                | 0.0           |
| p_arp_mod           | 0.0           | p_arp_mod                | 0.0           |
| p_arp_speed         | 0.0           | p_arp_speed              | 0.0           |
| p_duty              | 0.0           | duty                     | 50.0          |
| p_duty_ramp         | 0.0           | duty_ramp                | 0.0           |
| p_repeat_speed      | 0.0           | repeat_speed             | 0.0           |
| p_pha_offset        | 0.0           | pha_offset               | 0.0           |
| p_pha_ramp          | 0.0           | pha_ramp                 | 0.0           |
| p_lpf_freq          | 1.0           | lpf_freq                 | 0.0           |
| p_lpf_ramp          | 0.0           | lpf_ramp                 | 0.0           |
| p_lpf_resonance     | 0.0           | lpf_resonance            | 45.0          |
| p_hpf_freq          | 0.0           | hpf_freq                 | 0.0           |
| p_hpf_ramp          | 0.0           | hpf_ramp                 | 0.0           |

#### Examples

##### Use a table

```lua
local coin = {
    wave_type = 1,
    env_sustain = 0.001367,
    env_punch = 45.72,
    env_decay = 0.2658,
    base_freq = 1071.0,
    arp_mod = 1.343,
    arp_speed = 0.04447,
    duty = 50.0,
    lpf_ramp = 1.0,
    lpf_resonance = 45.0,
}

require("player-one").play(coin)
```

##### Use a json

```lua
local coin = [[{
        "oldParams": true,
        "wave_type": 1,
        "p_env_attack": 0,
        "p_env_sustain": 0.024555768060600138,
        "p_env_punch": 0.4571553721133509,
        "p_env_decay": 0.3423639066276736,
        "p_base_freq": 0.5500696633190347,
        "p_freq_limit": 0,
        "p_freq_ramp": 0,
        "p_freq_dramp": 0,
        "p_vib_strength": 0,
        "p_vib_speed": 0,
        "p_arp_mod": 0.5329522492796008,
        "p_arp_speed": 0.689393158112304,
        "p_duty": 0,
        "p_duty_ramp": 0,
        "p_repeat_speed": 0,
        "p_pha_offset": 0,
        "p_pha_ramp": 0,
        "p_lpf_freq": 1,
        "p_lpf_ramp": 0,
        "p_lpf_resonance": 0,
        "p_hpf_freq": 0,
        "p_hpf_ramp": 0,
        "sound_vol": 0.25,
        "sample_rate": 44100,
        "sample_size": 8
}]]

require("player-one").play(coin)

```

## How it works

## Tips

### Use Terminal Emulator with Custom Shaders

Level up the immersive experience with a terminal emulator that supports custom shaders, such as:

- [Ghostty](https://ghostty.org/): supports [customGLSL shader](https://ghostty.org/docs/config/reference#custom-shader)
- [Rio](https://raphamorim.io/rio/): supports [RetroArch shaders](https://raphamorim.io/rio/docs/features/retroarch-shaders/)

### Dark Color Scheme that matches the 8-bit theme

Use a color scheme with [base16](https://github.com/chriskempson/base16) colors for the extra retro touch:

- [RRethy/base16-nvim](https://github.com/RRethy/base16-nvim): Neovim plugin for building a sync base16 colorscheme. Includes support for Treesitter and LSP highlight groups.

> [!TIP]
> My favorite is `base16-default-dark`.

Or a color scheme with vibrant colors on dark background:

- [folke/tokyonight.nvim](https://github.com/folke/tokyonight.nvim?tab=readme-ov-file): 🏙 A clean, dark Neovim theme written in Lua, with support for lsp, treesitter and lots of plugins. Includes additional themes for Kitty, Alacritty, iTerm and Fish.
  > [!TIP]
  > Try to setting `transparent` to true and use a dark terminal background.

### Font with Retro Look

Try to use a font that looks like it's from the past.

### Play soundtracks from games you love

This may improve your productity or may make you shed tears of nostalgia. Some awesome soundtracks to try:

- Little Root Town from Pokemon Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald
- Running Through the Cyber World from Mega Man Battle Network
- Main Theme from The Legend of Zelda

## Credits

- [sfxr](https://www.drpetter.se/project_sfxr.html): The original sfxr by DrPetter.
- [jsfxr](https://sfxr.me/): An online 8 bit sound maker and sfx generator.

Libraries used:

- [mlua-rs/mlua](https://github.com/mlua-rs/mlua): High level Lua 5.4/5.3/5.2/5.1 (including LuaJIT) and Roblox Luau bindings to Rust with async/await support.
- [bzar/sfxr-rs](https://github.com/bzar/sfxr-rs): Reimplementation of DrPetter's "sfxr" sound effect generator as a Rust library.

Inspired by:

- [Klack](https://tryklack.com/): A MacOS app that adds mechanical keyboard sounds to every keystroke.
- [EggbertFluffle/beepboop.nvim](https://github.com/EggbertFluffle/beepboop.nvim): A Neovim plugin that incorporate audio cues.
- [jackplus-xyz/love2jump](https://github.com/jackplus-xyz/love2jump): A 2D platformer game built with [LÖVE](https://www.love2d.org/) framework in Lua. This is my personal project to learn the fundamentals of game development. I got the idea of generating 8 bits notes and melody with [love.audio](https://love2d.org/wiki/love.audio), making this game free of audio file.
